PD-85  SCALE 22.12 Update Alert Settings Screenshots and Article Content (#1705)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALEUIReference/TopToolbar/Alerts/AlertSettingsScreen.md

---

> title: Alert Settings Screen

Reviewer: Add to the front matter:

description: "type some short sentence description for the article that shows up in the _index.md file after adding the children shortcode.

weight: 10
tags:

> - scalealerts

Reviewer: add - scaleclustering to the tags list, 

You can add other tags if you think there are other areas mentioned that could benefit by adding the tag.

You can customize alert settings for when ports are not active on the LAGG interface and when the LAGG interface has no active ports.
{{< /expand >}}

### Reporting Alert Settings
**Reporting** alert settings apply to collectd, database size threshold, and syslog processes on your TrueNAS.
{{< expand "Click here for more information" >}}

![AlertSettingsReporting](/images/SCALE/22.12/AlertSettingsReporting.png "Reporting Alert Settings")

You can customize alert settings for when collectd has critical alerts and warnings, the reporting database size exceeds the threshold, and syslog-ng is not running.
{{< /expand >}}

### Sharing Alert Settings
**Sharing** alert settings apply to iSCSI, NFS, or SMB shares and connections configured on your TrueNAS.
{{< expand "Click here for more information" >}}

![AlertSettingsSharing](/images/SCALE/22.12/AlertSettingsSharing.png "Sharing Alert Settings")

You can customize alert settings for when a deprecated service is running, IP addresses bound to an iSCSI portal are not found, NFS services cannot bind to specific IP addresses using 0.0.0.0, and the system cannot resolve NFS share references hosts.

> You can also customize alerts for when NTLMv1 authentication has attempted in the last 24 hours, SMB1 connections to TrueNAS server have performed in the last 24 hours, and a share is unavailable because it uses a locked dataset.

Reviewer: I'm thinking of a more active voice/present tense way to say this, maybe this? Or a variation of it?
```suggestion
You can also customize alerts for when NTLMv1 attempts authentication in the last 24 hours, SMB1 connections to TrueNAS server are performed in the last 24 hours, and a share is unavailable because it uses a locked dataset.
```

{{< /expand >}}

### Storage Alert Settings
**Storage** alert settings apply to quotas, pools, snapshots, and scrub processes on your TrueNAS.
{{< expand "Click here for more information" >}}

![AlertSettingsStorage](/images/SCALE/22.12/AlertSettingsStorage.png "Storage Alert Settings")

You can customize alert settings for when a dataset exceeds standard and critical quotas, a pool has new available feature flags, pool space usage exceeds 70, 80, or 90 percent, and pool status is not healthy. 

You can change alert settings for when a pool consumes USB disks, a scrub pauses, and too many snapshots exist.
{{< /expand >}}

### System Alert Settings
**System** alert settings apply to system processes, the system dataset, TrueCommand API Key, SSH logins, system reboots, updates, and the web interface.
{{< expand "Click here for more information" >}}

![AlertSettingsSystem](/images/SCALE/22.12/AlertSettingsSystem.png "System Alert Settings")

> You can customize alert settings for when Admin is overriden, the boot pool is unhealthy, the system dataset has core files, a device slows down pool I/O, NTP health checks fail, and TrueCommand API keys are disabled or need confirmation.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to capitalize admin here, and is this the admin user? maybe this if this is what is meant:
```suggestion
You can customize alert settings for when the admin user is overriden, the boot pool is unhealthy, the system dataset has core files, a device slows down pool I/O, NTP health checks fail, and TrueCommand API keys are disabled or need confirmation.
```

You can also change alert settings for when SSH logins fail, the system is not ready for Kdump, the web UI cannot bind to a configured address, TrueCommand fails health checks, the system reboots off schedule, and update are available, failed, or not applied.
{{< /expand >}}

### Task Alert Settings
**Task** alert settings apply to cloud sync, VMWare snapshots, replication, rsync, scrub and snapshot tasks scheduled on your TrueNAS.
{{< expand "Click here for more information" >}}

![AlertSettingsTasks](/images/SCALE/22.12/AlertSettingsTasks.png "Task Alert Settings")

> You can customize alert settings for when cloud sync tasks, VMWare snapshot creation, login, and deletion, replication, Rsync tasks, scrubs, and snapshot tasks fail in general or due to locked datasets.

Reviewer: rsync is not a proper noun or unique feature/function so use lower case
```suggestion
You can customize alert settings for when cloud sync tasks, VMWare snapshot creation, login, and deletion, replication, rsync tasks, scrubs, and snapshot tasks fail in general or due to locked datasets.
```

You can also change alert settings for when replication, rsync tasks, and scrubs succeed.
{{< /expand >}}

### UPS Alert Settings
**UPS** alert settings apply to a UPS connected to your TrueNAS.
{{< expand "Click here for more information" >}}

![AlertSettingsUPS](/images/SCALE/22.12/AlertSettingsUPS.png "UPS Alert Settings")

> You can customize alert settings for when the UPS battery is low or needs replacement, the UPS establishes or loses communication, and the UPS is on battery or line power

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize alert settings for when the UPS battery is low or needs replacement, the UPS establishes or loses communication, and the UPS is on battery or line power.
```

Use the **Set Frequency** dropdown list to adjust how often the system sends or displays alert notifications. 

> Alert frequencies options are **Immediately (Default)**, **Hourly**, **Daily** or **Never**. Setting the **Frequency** to **Never** prevents that alert from displaying in the **Alerts Notification** dialog, but it still pops up in the web UI if triggered.

Reviewer: maybe this?
```suggestion
Alert frequency options are **Immediately (Default)**, **Hourly**, **Daily** or **Never**. Setting the **Frequency** to **Never** prevents that alert from displaying in the **Alerts Notification** dialog, but it still pops up in the web UI if triggered.
```
